Add "Optimizing" chapter to dynamic-dags section (#25121)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/apache-airflow/howto/dynamic-dag-generation.rst

.. warning::
  Using this practice, pay attention to "late binding" behaviour in Python loops. See `that GitHub discussion <https://github.com/apache/airflow/discussions/21278#discussioncomment-2103559>`_ for more details

> Optimizing DAG parsing in workers/Kubernetes Pods

Reviewer: I don't think mentioning "Kubernetes Pods" here is correct? A pod is just the thing that runs a scheduler or worker?

Author: What I mean by that is really the K8S Pod run by the K8S Executor. "Worker" is more of the Celery term - it does not really apply to the KubernetesExecutor. But maybe "Airflow task Pod" would be better? WDYT?

Reviewer: This trick works regardless of the chosen executor, right?

Reviewer 2: Should we mention k8s here?
This is a general howto doc it also appears at the beginning of our documentation we can't expect users to be familiar with K8s here and the article contains several k8s references.
Maybe the k8s related should be extracted to the k8s executor section with a reference note?

Author: > This trick works regardless of the chosen executor, right?

Correct.

> Should we mention k8s here?

Yeah. We should not. I think it's just mostly "namiing" problem. There is nothing K8S-specific here. We can simply mention "when your task is being executed"   rather than mentioning K8S POd or Worker. The thing is that people don't generaly realise that no-matter which executor they use, the task is actually executed with the right "airflow run task" command - for most people this is an implementation detail that they do not know. But in this case we are talking about optimisation which is on such a level, that educating the users about it, mighy make sense. Let me rephrase it.

Reviewer: Hmm I tested this on Local, Celery, and Kubernetes-executor and it only seems to work on the KubernetesExecutor. It seems args are passed differently on Local and Celery-executor. This is the DAG I'm using:

```python
import datetime
import logging
import sys

from airflow import DAG
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator

logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

current_dag = None
if len(sys.argv) > 3:
    current_dag = sys.argv[3]

for thing in range(100):
    dag_id = f"generated_dag_{thing}"
    logger.info(f"CURRENT DAG = {current_dag}, DAG_ID = {dag_id}, sys.argv = {sys.argv}")
    if current_dag is not None and current_dag != dag_id:
        continue

    print(f"GENERATING DAG {dag_id}. Args = {sys.argv}")
    with DAG(dag_id=dag_id, schedule_interval="@daily", start_date=datetime.datetime(2022, 7, 1)) as dag:
        BashOperator(task_id="hello", bash_command="echo bla")
        globals()[dag_id] = dag
```

Here's a snippet of the output on CeleryExecutor:

```text
[2022-07-18 13:46:24,114: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-15] GENERATING DAG generated_dag_65. Args = ['/home/airflow/.local/bin/airflow', 'celery', 'worker']
[2022-07-18 13:46:24,116: INFO/ForkPoolWorker-15] CURRENT DAG = None, DAG_ID = generated_dag_66, sys.argv = ['/home/airflow/.local/bin/airflow', 'celery', 'worker']
```

And on KubernetesExecutor:

```text
[2022-07-18 13:39:56,709] {scheduler_worker_distinction.py:20} INFO - CURRENT DAG = generated_dag_1, DAG_ID = generated_dag_99, sys.argv = ['/usr/local/bin/airflow', 'tasks', 'run', 'generated_dag_1', 'hello', 'scheduled__2022-07-13T00:00:00+00:00', '--local', '--subdir', 'DAGS_FOLDER/scheduler_worker_distinction.py']
```

I like this optimization, but if it only works on the KubernetesExecutor we should be explicit about it.

Author: Hmm. I was quite sure celery worker is also doing "airflow run task" under the hood - but yeah. I think with pre-fork model on Celery it behaves like that. 

I think it still can be an optimised also for celery but yeah. We should work out the "generic" way of distinguishing between "scheduler" / "dag processor" and "task execution"

Author: Of course `execute_tasks_new_python_interpreter  = False` -> is what causes this not to work :) - we just need to handle this case.

Author: I think we could either get the command from "getproctitle" (that would likely work even now) or maybe we should introduce a more robust way (setting env variables AIRFLOW_CURRENT_DAG_ID AIRFLOW_CURRENT_TASK_ID?) to make it really robust in the future ?

-------------------------------------------------

> Sometimes when you generate a lot of Dynamic DAGs in single DAG file, it might cause unnecessary delays
> when the DAG file is parsed in worker or in Kubernetes POD. In Workers or Kubernetes PODs, you actually
> need only the single DAG (and even single Task of the DAG) to be instantiated in order to execute the task.
> If creating your DAG objects takes a lot of time, and each generated DAG is created independently from each
> other, this might be optimized away by simply skipping the generation of DAGs in worker.

Reviewer: Couple of suggestions for clarity/conciseness. Would also add a self-contained example, so that the reader can gather all information from just the docs.

```suggestion
Sometimes when you generate a lot of Dynamic DAGs in single DAG file, it might cause unnecessary delays
when the DAG file is parsed in worker or in Kubernetes POD. In Workers or Kubernetes PODs, you actually
need only the single DAG (and even single Task of the DAG) to be instantiated in order to execute the task.
If creating your DAG objects takes a lot of time, and each generated DAG is created independently from each
other, this might be optimized away by simply skipping the generation of DAGs in worker.
```

The parsing time of dynamically generated DAGs in Airflow workers can be optimized. This optimization is most effective when the number of generated DAGs is high. The Airflow scheduler requires loading of a complete DAG file to process all metadata. However, an Airflow worker requires only a single DAG object to execute a task. This allows us to skip the generation of unnecessary DAG objects in the worker, shortening the parsing time. Upon evaluation of a DAG file, command line arguments are supplied which we can use to determine whether the scheduler or worker evaluates the file:

- Scheduler args: ``["scheduler"]``
- Worker args: ``["airflow", "tasks", "run", "dag_id", "task_id", ...]``

Upon iterating over the collection of things to generate DAGs for, use these arguments to determine whether you need to generate all DAG objects (when running in the scheduler), or to generate only a single DAG object (when running in a worker):

.. code-block:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 1,2,3,7,8

    current_dag = None
    if len(sys.argv) > 3:
        current_dag = sys.argv[3]

    for thing in list_of_things:
        dag_id = f"generated_dag_{thing}"
        if current_dag is not None and current_dag != dag_id:
            continue  # skip generation of non-selected DAG
        
        dag = DAG(dag_id=dag_id, ...)
        globals()[dag_id] = dag

A nice example is shown in the
[Airflow's Magic Loop](https://medium.com/apache-airflow/airflows-magic-loop-ec424b05b629) blog post that describes how parsing in workers was reduced from 120 seconds to 200 ms.

Author: Yep. Self contained example is something I also wanted to add after creating the PR :)

.. warning::
  Using this practice, pay attention to "late binding" behaviour in Python loops. See `that GitHub discussion <https://github.com/apache/airflow/discussions/21278#discussioncomment-2103559>`_ for more details

Optimizing DAG parsing delays during execution
----------------------------------------------

Sometimes when you generate a lot of Dynamic DAGs from a single DAG file, it might cause unnecessary delays
when the DAG file is parsed during task execution. This is visible as delay before a task starts

> and when it gets executed. Sometimes the delays might be minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when the DAG file is parsed during task execution. The impact is a delay before a task starts.
```

Would change the wording from "visible" to "impact" since there isn't any process actively notifying a user of task delay. Also, would remove the sentence "Sometimes the delays might be minutes." since it depends on a user's DAG code and the delay could be anything.

> Why is this happening ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why is this happening?
```

> You might not be aware but when your task is executed just before execution, airflow parses the Python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might not be aware but when your task is executed just before execution, Airflow parses the Python
```

> file the dag comes from. When tasks are executed, parsing time of dynamically generated DAGs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file the DAG comes from. When tasks are executed, parsing time of dynamically generated DAGs
```

> when task are executed can be optimized. This optimization is most effective when the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when a task is executed can be optimized. This optimization is most effective when the
```

> number of generated DAGs is high.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Why is this happening? You might not be aware but just before your task is executed, airflow parses
the Python file the dag comes from.
```

I think these last 2 sentences are here too early in this section.

The Airflow Scheduler (or DAG Processor) requires loading of a complete DAG file to process all metadata.

> However, task execution requires only a single DAG object to execute a task. Knowing this, allows us to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, task execution requires only a single DAG object to execute a task. Knowing this, we can
```

> However, task execution requires only a single DAG object to execute a task. Knowing this, allows us to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, task execution requires only a single DAG object to execute a task. Knowing this allows us to
```

skip the generation of unnecessary DAG objects when task is executed, shortening the parsing time.

> Upon evaluation of a DAG file, command line arguments are supplied which we can use to determine which

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This optimization is most effective when the number of generated DAGs is high.

Upon evaluation of a DAG file, command line arguments are supplied which we can use to determine which
```

This is a better place for it I think.

> airflow component performs parsing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow component performs parsing:
```

> * Scheduler/DAG Processor args: ``["scheduler"]`` or ``["dag-processor"]``

Reviewer: Would start args with `airflow` since that's also shown in task execution args.

Author: Right.

However, depending on the executor used and forking model, those args might be available via ``sys.args``
or via name of the process running. Airflow either executes tasks via running a new Python interpreter or
sets the name of the process as "airflow task supervisor: {ARGS}".

> This optimization is most effective when the number of generated DAGs is high.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When tasks are executed, parsing time of dynamically generated DAGs can be optimized. This optimization is most effective when the number of generated DAGs is high.

However, depending on the executor used and forking model, those args might be available via ``sys.args``
or via name of the process running. Airflow either executes tasks via running a new Python interpreter or
sets the name of the process as "airflow task supervisor: {ARGS}".
```

Remove duplicate "When tasks are executed" + merge with the sentence below for better structure.

Author: I shortened it a bit more - the optimization part was already mentioned above.

Upon iterating over the collection of things to generate DAGs for, you can use these arguments to determine
whether you need to generate all DAG objects (when parsing in the DAG File processor), or to generate only

> a single DAG object (when executing the task)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a single DAG object (when executing the task):
```

> a single DAG object (when executing the task).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a single DAG object (when executing the task):
```

.. code-block:: python

>   :emphasize-lines: 1,2,3,7,8

Reviewer: Change to highlight the relevant lines

  import sys
  import ast

  current_dag = None
  if len(sys.argv) > 3 and sys.argv[1] == "tasks":
      current_dag = sys.argv[3]
  else:
      try:
          PROCTITLE_PREFIX = "airflow task supervisor: "
          proctitle = str(setproctitle.getproctitle())
          if proctitle.startswith(PROCTITLE_PREFIX):
              args_string = proctitle[len(PROCTITLE_PREFIX) :]
              args = ast.literal_eval(args_string)
              if len(args) > 3 and args[1] == "tasks":
                  current_dag = args[3]
      except:

>           pass

Reviewer: IMO this if/else could use a comment e.g. "args supplied to process" and "process is forked and task args are supplied via proctitle".

Author: Yeah. Comments are needed but rather than repeating in the comment what we actually do, it should explain why we are doing it:

```
# task executed by starting a new Python interpreter
```
and

```
 # task executed via forked process
````

are better comments in this case :)

                  current_dag = args[3]

>       except:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      except Exception:
```

      dag_id = f"generated_dag_{thing}"
      if current_dag is not None and current_dag != dag_id:
          continue  # skip generation of non-selected DAG

      dag = DAG(dag_id=dag_id, ...)
      globals()[dag_id] = dag

> 

Reviewer: Let's show all imports in this code to make it an easily copy-pastable example.

Author: Yeah. missed setproctitle and DAG.

> Checking if the second argument is ``tasks`` also allows to optimize ``airflow tasks test`` command

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Checking if the second argument is ``tasks`` also allows us to optimize the ``airflow tasks test`` command
```

in similar way, while it will also rule out accidental detection in case more arguments

> are passed to ``scheduler`` or ``dag-processor`` command.

Reviewer: IMO this sentence is unneccesary to a reader of the docs.

Author: Agree it feels more appropriate for commit message :)

.. warning::
  Using this practice, pay attention to "late binding" behaviour in Python loops. See `that GitHub discussion <https://github.com/apache/airflow/discussions/21278#discussioncomment-2103559>`_ for more details

Optimizing DAG parsing delays during execution
----------------------------------------------

Sometimes when you generate a lot of Dynamic DAGs from a single DAG file, it might cause unnecessary delays
when the DAG file is parsed during task execution. The impact is a delay before a task starts.

> Why is this happening? You might not be aware but when your task is executed just before execution,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Why is this happening? You might not be aware but just before your task is executed,
```

Airflow parses the Python file the DAG comes from.

The Airflow Scheduler (or DAG Processor) requires loading of a complete DAG file to process all metadata.
However, task execution requires only a single DAG object to execute a task. Knowing this, we can

> skip the generation of unnecessary DAG objects when task is executed, shortening the parsing time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
skip the generation of unnecessary DAG objects when a task is executed, shortening the parsing time.
```
